Improve hardware requirements (#316)
codacy/chart: docs/requirements.md

Running Codacy on a Kubernetes cluster requires the following:

-   A Kubernetes 1.14.\* or 1.15.\* cluster provisioned with the [required resources](#hardware-requirements)
-   The [NGINX Ingress Controller](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/nginx-ingress) for Kubernetes
-   A [PostgreSQL server](#postgresql-server-setup) accessible from the Kubernetes cluster

## Hardware Requirements

The resource usage for Codacy depends a lot on the amount of concurrent analysis that you configure. Check the following table for some examples.

| Installation type              | Max. parallel analysis | vCPUs | Memory | Storage |
| ------------------------------ | ---------------------- | ----- | ------ | ------- |
| Kubernetes Small Installation  | 2                      | 16    | 64 GB  | 1 TB+   |
| Kubernetes Medium Installation | 4                      | 32    | 128 GB | 1 TB+   |
| Kubernetes Big Installation    | 10                     | 64    | 256 GB | 1 TB+   |
| MicroK8s Minimum               | 2                      | 16    | 32 GB  | 1 TB+   |

> | MicroK8s Recommended           | 2                      | 16    | 64 GB  | 1 TB+   |

Author: @paulopontesm this new table with examples is really helpful!

I have two questions:
* Depending on the type / size of installation, the user must adjust the values in the reference `values-[production|microk8s].yaml` files, correct? If so, this mapping should be made clearer below when we mention the reference `.yaml` files.
* What are the differences between a small / medium / big installation? Does it only have to do with the number of analysis running in parallel? Or are there any other factors that affect this, such as number of users simultaneously using the website or the number and size of the repositories?

Besides this, right now the MicroK8s and Kubernetes hardware requirements are not "parallel", since for MicroK8s we have "minimum and recommended" while for Kubernetes we have "small / medium / big" installations. This could cause confusion when trying to directly compare the two types of cluster. For example, as a customer, I would think that the MicroK8s solution is equivalent to a Kubernetes Small Installation since their hardware requirements are the same. To make things more consistent, could we use the same kind of categories for both MicroK8s and Kubernetes? For example, something like this:
  * MicroK8s Small Installation (drop the "minimum requirements")
  * Kubernetes Small Installation
  * Kubernetes Medium Installation
  * Kubernetes Big Installation

  or

  * MicroK8s Minimum
  * MicroK8s Recommended
  * Kubernetes Minimum
  * Kubernetes Comfortable
  * Kubernetes Optimal

Reviewer: > Depending on the type / size of installation, the user must adjust the values in the reference values-[production|microk8s].yaml files, correct? If so, this mapping should be made clearer below when we mention the reference .yaml files.

I don't think most customers need to change anything in the values-[production|microk8s].yaml files.

When the installation starts to get realllyyy big, maybe it is a good idea for customers to start increasing the number of replicas for each component. When that time comes, they need to edit (or create their one) the file and do the calculations taking into account the resources that are on those files. 

Example:

This is the codacy-api with 2 replicas:

```
codacy-api:
  replicaCount: 2
  resources:
    limits:
      cpu: 1000m
      memory: 2000Mi
    requests:
      cpu: 500m
      memory: 500Mi
```

If set it to one more replica, it will use more 500-1000 CPU and 500-2000 Memory in your cluster:

```
codacy-api:
  replicaCount: 3
  resources:
    limits:
      cpu: 1000m
      memory: 2000Mi
    requests:
      cpu: 500m
      memory: 500Mi
```

> What are the differences between a small / medium / big installation? Does it only have to do with the number of analysis running in parallel? Or are there any other factors that affect this, such as number of users simultaneously using the website or the number and size of the repositories?

The number of concurrent analysis is definitely the most impactful.

Check here the total requests and limits for 2 concurrent analysis (look at the `worker` and `tools`):

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3610528/77421805-61cc0680-6dc4-11ea-95aa-0390cdaf217c.png)

10 concurrent analysis:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3610528/77421830-6db7c880-6dc4-11ea-9cbc-d45c12a5cf2c.png)

> MicroK8s Minimum
MicroK8s Recommended
Kubernetes Minimum
Kubernetes Comfortable
Kubernetes Optimal

I really like this

Author: OK, I think I was confusing the **infrastructure** provisioning (vCPUs, RAM memory, and storage) with the **cluster** provisioning (defined on the .yaml files).

> ### Calculate

Reviewer: @pauloribeiro-codacy I am thinking on developing here a bit on how to calculate resources

Author: I think that the best is if we can abstract this but still provide guidance for customers to provision their infrastructure. Your table above is a great step in this direction! We should invest in this kind of presenting the information to customers so that we don't need to go deep into the technical details. :+1:

Author: I think that we no longer need more specific instructions on how to calculate resources. The architecture introduction and the examples presented in the table should be enough now.

components important to treat and show results. The Analysis is the swarm of workers that run several linters for
your project.

**The resources needed for Codacy depend a lot on the rate of commits done by your team.**

!["High Level Architecture"](<./images/High Level Architecture - Analysis II.svg> "High Level Architecture")

Since all of this runs in kubernetes, you can increase the number of replicas in for every deployment, which should give you more resilience and throughput, but it will also increase resource usage. A very simplistic overview of the resource allocations for the "Platform" and "Analysis" goes something like this:

| Component                           | vCPU | Memory |
| ----------------------------------- | ---- | ------ |
| Platform w/ 1 replica on everything | 4    | 8      |
| Per Analysis Worker                 | 5    | 10     |

The resources described on the following table are based on our experience and are also the defaults in the [values-production.yaml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codacy/chart/master/codacy/values-production.yaml) file, which you might need to adapt taking into account your use case.

> | Installation type                        | ~ Total vCPUs | ~ Total Memory | Replicas per component | Max. commits analyzed concurrently | Platform vCPUs | Platform Memory | Analysis Workers vCPUs | Analysis Workers Memory |

Reviewer: We need to talk about storage

Running Codacy on a Kubernetes cluster requires the following:

-   A Kubernetes 1.14.\* or 1.15.\* cluster provisioned with the [required resources](#hardware-requirements)

> -   The [NGINX Ingress Controller](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/nginx-ingress) must be setup in your cluster

Author: Make the sentence more parallel with the other items in the list:

```suggestion
-   The [NGINX Ingress Controller](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/nginx-ingress) correctly set up in your cluster
```

-   A [PostgreSQL server](#postgresql-server-setup) accessible from the Kubernetes cluster

> ## Hardware Requirements

Author: Minor edit to use sentence case headings:

```suggestion
## Hardware requirements
```

> A good way of understanding how resources are used in Codacy is by understanding how the resources are allocated.

Author: ```suggestion
The following high-level architecture is important in understanding how Codacy uses and allocates hardware resources.
```

> !["High Level Architecture"](<./images/High Level Architecture - Analysis II.svg> "High Level Architecture")

Author: I think that later we can simplify the diagram a bit - or at least highlight better what's relevant for this page.

Ideally, we should have the architecture of the platform described on the documentation so that here we could simply refer to that.

Reviewer: Can you help me edit it?
https://docs.google.com/drawings/d/1n4FxUB1UeHMxSKN28U1zD1FmzWJ6Ewq3p3sJbXwNoSM/edit?usp=drive_web&ouid=116146841954292499642

You can look at Codacy separately as the "Platform" and the "Analysis" cluster. The Platform contains the UI and other
components important to treat and show results. The Analysis is the swarm of workers that run several linters for

> your project.

Author: I would place this before the architecture diagram as it helps the reader understand what they should be looking at in the diagram.

> **The resources needed for Codacy depend a lot on the rate of commits done by your team.**

Author: I would also tie this important conclusion with the previous paragraph.

> Since all of this runs in kubernetes, you can increase the number of replicas in everything, which should give you

Author: Can we use a more specific word instead of "everything"? Are these the pod replicas?

Reviewer: I changed everything with "deployments"
Its quite kubernetes specific tought. Do you think that's ok?

Author: Meaning, it doesn't apply to MicroK8s, right?

more resilience and throughput, but it will also increase resource usage. A very simplistic overview of the resource

> allocations for each of these is something like this:

Author: What are "these"? The pods? Or the Codacy components?

We should try to avoid pronouns as much as possible, as this reduces the ambiguity of the provided information.

Reviewer: Replaced with 

> A very simplistic overview of the resource allocations for the "Platform" and "Analysis" goes something like this:

| Component                           | vCPU | Memory |
| ----------------------------------- | ---- | ------ |
| Platform w/ 1 replica on everything | 4    | 8      |
| Per Worker                          | 5    | 10     |

The following table resources are based on our experience and the values we allocated for
resources in the [values-production.yaml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codacy/chart/master/codacy/values-production.yaml)

> and you might need to adapt them to your use case.

Author: ```suggestion
The resources described on the following table are based on our experience and are also the defaults in the [values-production.yaml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codacy/chart/master/codacy/values-production.yaml) file, which you might need to adapt taking into account your use case.
```

> | Installation type                        | Replicas per component | Max. commits analyzed concurrently | Platform vCPUs | Platform Memory | Analysis Workers vCPUs | Analysis Workers Memory | ~ Total vCPUs | ~ Total Memory |

Author: We should figure out a way of highlighting the **total** vCPUs and memory needed.

A simple way of doing this could be moving these two columns to the beginning of the table, or maybe we could use some other way of doing this.

Reviewer: I changed these columns to the beginning... what do you think?

Author: Yes, it's better now because the more important information is readily visible at the beginning of the table.

I was thinking if it's really important to detail the vCPUs and RAM for the platform and the analysis workers.

| ---------------------------------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------------------- | -------------- | --------------- | ---------------------- | ----------------------- | ------------- | -------------- |
| Kubernetes Small Installation            | 1                      | 2                                  | 4              | 8 GB            | 10                     | 20 GB                   | 16            | 32 GB          |
| Kubernetes Medium Installation (default) | 2                      | 4                                  | 8              | 16 GB           | 20                     | 40 GB                   | 32            | 64 GB          |
| Kubernetes Big Installation              | 2+                     | 10+                                | 8+             | 16+ GB          | 50+                    | 100+ GB                 | 60+           | 110+ GB        |

**NOTE:**

> For microk8s we added 1.5 CPU and 1.5 GB extra in the "Platform" meant to be used by microk8s itself.

Author: :+1: I think this explanation is important!

Running Codacy on a Kubernetes cluster requires the following:

-   A Kubernetes 1.14.\* or 1.15.\* cluster provisioned with the [required resources](#hardware-requirements)
-   The [NGINX Ingress Controller](https://github.com/helm/charts/tree/master/stable/nginx-ingress) correctly set up in your cluster
-   A [PostgreSQL server](#postgresql-server-setup) accessible from the Kubernetes cluster

## Hardware requirements

The following high-level architecture is important in understanding how Codacy uses and allocates hardware resources.

> You can look at Codacy separately as the "Platform" and the "Analysis" cluster. The Platform contains the UI and other

Reviewer 2: Maybe use bold for **Platform** and **Analysis** here to make them stand out and get reader attention

components important to treat and show results. The Analysis is the swarm of workers that run several linters for
your project.

**The resources needed for Codacy depend a lot on the rate of commits done by your team.**

!["High Level Architecture"](<./images/High Level Architecture - Analysis II.svg> "High Level Architecture")

### Virtual CPUs and memory

Since all components are running on Kubernetes, you can increase the number of replicas in every deployment to give you more resilience and throughput, at a cost of increased resource usage. The following is a simplified overview of how to calculate resource allocation for the "Platform" and the "Analysis":

| Component                          | vCPU                    | Memory                   |
| ---------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------ |
| Platform (1 replica per component) | 4                       | 8                        |

> | Analysis Worker                    | 5 (per Analysis Worker) | 10 (per Analysis Worker) |

Reviewer 2: Maybe clarify in the text how this cpu and memory is split between the worker and the 4 tools it may spawn

> The resources described on the following table are based on our experience and are also the defaults in the [values-production.yaml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codacy/chart/master/codacy/values-production.yaml) file, which you might need to adapt taking into account your use case.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Standard Cluster Installation
The resources described on the following table are based on our experience and are also the defaults in the [values-production.yaml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codacy/chart/master/codacy/values-production.yaml) file, which you might need to adapt taking into account your use case.
```

Reviewer 3: Basically just adding a subsection here
Standard cluster might not be the best name for the subsection though.

| Installation type                        | ~ Total vCPUs | ~ Total Memory | Replicas per component | Max. commits analyzed concurrently | Platform vCPUs | Platform Memory | Analysis Workers vCPUs | Analysis Workers Memory |
| ---------------------------------------- | ------------- | -------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------------------- | -------------- | --------------- | ---------------------- | ----------------------- |
| Kubernetes Small Installation            | 16            | 32 GB          | 1                      | 2                                  | 4              | 8 GB            | 10                     | 20 GB                   |

> | Kubernetes Medium Installation (default) | 32            | 64 GB          | 2                      | 4                                  | 8              | 16 GB           | 20                     | 40 GB                   |

Reviewer 3: Maybe bold out this row so it stands out even more as the default?

| Kubernetes Big Installation              | 60+           | 110+ GB        | 2+                     | 10+                                | 8+             | 16+ GB          | 50+                    | 100+ GB                 |

> **NOTE:**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Microk8s Installation
**NOTE:**
```

Reviewer: We are putting a note like it is across different sections. I think @pauloribeiro-codacy is thinking on a way to have all this sections more clear, but right now I think it is better to keep all the same

For microk8s we added 1.5 CPU and 1.5 GB extra in the "Platform" meant to be used by microk8s itself.

| Installation type              | ~ Total vCPUs | ~ Total Memory | Replicas per component | Max. commits analyzed concurrently | Platform vCPUs | Platform Memory | Analysis Workers vCPUs | Analysis Workers Memory |
| ------------------------------ | ------------- | -------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------------------- | -------------- | --------------- | ---------------------- | ----------------------- |
| MicroK8s Minimum               | 16            | 32 GB          | 1                      | 2                                  | 5.5            | 9.5 GB          | 10                     | 20 GB                   |

> | MicroK8s Recommended (default) | 20+           | 32+ GB         | 1-2                    | 2                                  | 11+            | 20+ GB          | 10                     | 20 GB                   |

Reviewer 3: Maybe bold out this row so it stands out even more as the default?

Reviewer: I tried but it gets a bit confuse with the header:

![image](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/3610528/77763340-d1472d80-7032-11ea-97fa-3bb792de7ed2.png)

The storage necessary also depends on the number of repositories you have.
You can use the following table as a guideline to understand the kind of storage allocation

> done by codacy.

Author: ```suggestion
Use the following table as a guideline to determine Codacy's storage requirements.
```

> | Installation type | Bundled in the chart         | Minimum Recommended |

Author: "Installation type" doesn't seem to apply to the contents of the column. :thinking: Could it be something like "Component"?

```suggestion
| Component | Bundled in the chart         | Minimum Recommended |
```

| ----------------- | ---------------------------- | ------------------- |
| NFS               | Yes                          | 200 GB              |
| RabbitMQ          | Yes                          | 8 GB                |
| Minio             | Yes                          | 20 GB               |
| Postgres          | No (external DB recommended) | 500 GB+             |

> For a custom recommendation, please contact us at support@codacy.com.

Author: ```suggestion
For a custom recommendation, please contact us at [support@codacy.com](mailto://support@codacy.com).
```

> ## External PostgreSQL

Author: ```suggestion
## External PostgreSQL instance
```

Codacy requires a working PostgreSQL.
Google itself [doesn't recommend](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/databases/to-run-or-not-to-run-a-database-on-kubernetes-what-to-consider) that you run PostgreSQL inside you cluster.
As such, you should consider using a managed a solution like AWS RDS or Google Cloud SQL, or running the postgres server

> inside a dedicated VM/Machine.

Author: ```suggestion
Codacy requires a working PostgreSQL instance to persist data.

Google itself [doesn't recommend running database servers on your cluster](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/databases/to-run-or-not-to-run-a-database-on-kubernetes-what-to-consider). As such, consider using a managed a solution like AWS RDS or Google Cloud SQL, or running the PostgreSQL server inside a dedicated virtual machine.
```

> The minimum recommended specifications

Author: ```suggestion
The following are the minimum recommended specifications of the PostgreSQL instance:
```

> Google itself [doesn't recommend running database servers on your cluster](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/databases/to-run-or-not-to-run-a-database-on-kubernetes-what-to-consider). As such, consider using a managed a solution like AWS RDS or Google Cloud SQL, or running the PostgreSQL server inside a dedicated virtual machine.

Reviewer 3: 👍 this is really nice

| vCPU | Memory | Storage | Max Connections |
| ---- | ------ | ------- | --------------- |
| 4    | 8GB    | 500 GB+ | 300             |

### Setup

> We recommend that you also create a dedicated user for Codacy, with access permissions only to the databases specific to Codacy:

Author: ```suggestion
We recommend that you create a dedicated user for Codacy, with access permissions only to the databases that are specific to Codacy:
```

## Hardware requirements

The following high-level architecture is important in understanding how Codacy uses and allocates hardware resources.

You can look at Codacy separately as the **"Platform"** and the **"Analysis"** cluster. The Platform contains the UI and other
components important to treat and show results. The Analysis is the swarm of workers that run several linters for
your project.

**The resources needed for Codacy depend a lot on the rate of commits done by your team.**

!["High Level Architecture"](<./images/High Level Architecture - Analysis II.svg> "High Level Architecture")

### Virtual CPUs and memory

Since all components are running on Kubernetes, you can increase the number of replicas in every deployment to give you more resilience and throughput, at a cost of increased resource usage. The following is a simplified overview of how to calculate resource allocation for the **"Platform"** and the **"Analysis"**:

| Component                          | vCPU                    | Memory                   |
| ---------------------------------- | ----------------------- | ------------------------ |

> | Platform (1 replica per component) | 4                       | 8                        |

Reviewer 4: In this table, the values for memory could have a unit value for clarity

> | Analysis Worker + 4 linters        | 5 (per Analysis Worker) | 10 (per Analysis Worker) |

Reviewer 4: I think the "4 linters" part could be confusing for someone without the context of how our product works. People might confuse it with a specific set of linters instead of up-to 4 linters concurrently during an analysis.
Perhaps a note on this text could help?

Reviewer: The idea was for the image to give this context.

I will try to write a bit about the "4 linters"

> #### Standard Cluster Installation

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
#### Cluster Installation
```

The resources described on the following table are based on our experience and are also the defaults in the [values-production.yaml](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/codacy/chart/master/codacy/values-production.yaml) file, which you might need to adapt taking into account your use case.

> | Installation type                        | ~ Total vCPUs | ~ Total Memory | Replicas per component | Max. commits analyzed concurrently | Platform vCPUs | Platform Memory | Analysis Workers vCPUs | Analysis Workers Memory |

Reviewer 4: Totals in the rightmost columns? (just a personal preference)

Reviewer: It was a suggestion from @pauloribeiro-codacy that we were trying out, but I also like it more on the right. Changing 👍

| ------------------------------ | ------------- | -------------- | ---------------------- | ---------------------------------- | -------------- | --------------- | ---------------------- | ----------------------- |
| MicroK8s Minimum               | 16            | 32 GB          | 1                      | 2                                  | 5.5            | 9.5 GB          | 10                     | 20 GB                   |
| MicroK8s Recommended (default) | 20+           | 32+ GB         | 1-2                    | 2                                  | 11+            | 20+ GB          | 10                     | 20 GB                   |

### Storage

The storage requirements depend mainly on the number of repositories you will be analyzing.
Use the following table as a guideline to determine Codacy's storage requirements.

| Component | Bundled in the chart         | Minimum Recommended |
| --------- | ---------------------------- | ------------------- |
| NFS       | Yes                          | 200 GB              |
| RabbitMQ  | Yes                          | 8 GB                |
| Minio     | Yes                          | 20 GB               |

> | Postgres  | No (external DB recommended) | 500 GB+             |

Reviewer 4: It seems maybe a bit exaggerated for a MicroK8s installation. Should we split?

Reviewer: I used the doplicated as a reference for the postgres values

For a custom recommendation, please contact us at [support@codacy.com](mailto://support@codacy.com).

## External PostgreSQL instance

Codacy requires a working PostgreSQL instance to persist data.

> Google itself [doesn't recommend running database servers on your cluster](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/databases/to-run-or-not-to-run-a-database-on-kubernetes-what-to-consider). As such, consider using a managed a solution like AWS RDS or Google Cloud SQL, or running the PostgreSQL server inside a dedicated virtual machine.

Reviewer 4: Nice information, but perhaps the wording "Google itself" sounds like if we're placing them on some sort of godlike position. Maybe something like: "Google, the developer of Kubernetes..."

Reviewer: This makes total sense and it's wayyy better. Thank you

The resource usage for Codacy depends a lot on the amount of concurrent analysis that you configure. Check the following table for some examples.

| Installation type              | Max. parallel analysis | vCPUs | Memory | Storage |
| ------------------------------ | ---------------------- | ----- | ------ | ------- |
| Kubernetes Small Installation  | 2                      | 16    | 64 GB  | 1 TB+   |
| Kubernetes Medium Installation | 4                      | 32    | 128 GB | 1 TB+   |
| Kubernetes Big Installation    | 10                     | 64    | 256 GB | 1 TB+   |
| MicroK8s Minimum               | 2                      | 16    | 32 GB  | 1 TB+   |

> | MicroK8s Recommended           | 2                      | 16    | 64 GB  | 1 TB+   |

Author: @paulopontesm I made it more explicit that some lines apply to MicroK8s while the others apply to "normal" Kubernetes clusters.

I also decided to place the MicroK8s at the bottom of the table because as far as I know this solution is not as scalable and should only be considered for particular situations where the performance will not degrade the experience of using Codacy.

Reviewer: We should relate the number of parallel analysis with commits/hour?

Without accounting for analysis ([next section](#analysis)),

> you should need at least the following resources:

Author: Remove this paragraph as well since we no longer provide the values for vCPUs and memory?

    ```sql
    CREATE USER codacy WITH PASSWORD 'codacy';
    ALTER ROLE codacy WITH CREATEDB
    ```

3.  Make sure that you can connect to the PostgreSQL database using the newly created user. For example:

    ```bash
    psql -U codacy -h <PostgreSQL server hostname>
    ```

> 4.  Create the necessary databases

Author: ```suggestion
4.  Create the necessary databases:
```

    ```sql
    CREATE USER codacy WITH PASSWORD 'codacy';
    ALTER ROLE codacy WITH CREATEDB
    ```

3.  Make sure that you can connect to the PostgreSQL database using the newly created user. For example:

    ```bash

>     psql -U codacy -h <PostgreSQL server hostname>

Reviewer 4: I think this command will fail if there is no database with the same name as the user.
